════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
URL: https://docs.nexus.xyz
Title: Introduction | Nexus Docs
Scraped: 2026-01-30 09:47:32 UTC
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

Nexus is a high-performance Exchange Layer 1 blockchain purpose-built for verifiable finance. Our vision is to create a decentralized Internet Exchange — a global, Layer 1 platform where every asset, market, and stream of information is instantly tradable with extreme performance and low latency, powered by a foundation of high-performance verifiable computation based on zero-knowledge proofs. We believe finance is the most important application of verifiable computation, forming the foundation for a new programmable economy.
Nexus targets the $1T+ in daily exchange TradFi volume market across global spot, perps, derivatives, options, RWAs, treasuries, FX, and prediction markets, bringing programmable and composable exchange markets to the Internet’s financial layer.
hashtag
Technical Overview
Nexus presents a high-performance Layer 1 blockchain optimized from first principles for verifiable, high-throughput and low-latency exchange computation.
The Nexus Layer 1 introduces a custom parallelized co-processor architecture that extends the NexusEVM with
NexusCore
: a bundle of high-performance, exchange-optimized computational engines enshrined directly at the protocol level.
These native co-processors provide developers with:
High-throughput matching engines
Real-time price oracles and data feeds
Automated liquidation systems
Other specialized financial primitives
This design enables the permissionless deployment of high-performance Internet markets (perpetual futures, options, prediction markets, etc.) with CEX-level throughput and latency.
Additionally, Nexus co-processors expose CEX-like APIs directly at the L1 node level, allowing high-frequency trading strategies to be migrated onchain with minimal changes.
Co-Designed for Performance and Verifiability
NexusBFT consensus delivers sub-second block times with deterministic (instant) finality.
The parallelized NexusEVM + NexusCore execution environment runs independent orderbook engines concurrently, eliminating head-of-line blocking.
Every order, cancel, trade, settlement, and liquidation is executed and verified fully onchain and transparently.
Long-term Scalability via Verifiable Computation
At the core of the system is the Nexus zkVM – a high-performance zero-knowledge virtual machine designed to horizontally scale the network through distributed proof generation.
The Nexus zkVM:
Is already deployed and running on millions of devices through the Nexus Network distributed prover network
Is currently experimental but production-ready for select workloads
Will enable millions of devices to collaboratively validate financial computations, pushing Nexus toward Internet-scale throughput while preserving full cryptographic verifiability
The Nexus blockchain consists of two parallel state-machines, NexusEVM and NexusCore,
and a three-layer architecture, featuring Execution, Verification and Consensus.
*Stack-based visualization, showing NexusEVM and NexusCore as two parallel state-machines.
hashtag
Architecture Overview
Nexus Layer 1 is made up of the following components:
Execution Layer:
Processes all transactions and state transitions across two synchronized execution environments
NexusCore
: High-performance execution environment that hosts
enshrined co-processors
with deterministic, sub-500 ms latency for specialized financial operations.
NexusEVM:
An Ethereum-compatible virtual machine providing general-purpose programmability, composability, and full EVM tooling support for decentralized applications.
Consensus Layer:
NexusBFT:
A custom Byzantine Fault Tolerant consensus protocol that finalizes dual-execution blocks, coordinates validators, and manages the on-chain registry of co-processors.
Verification Layer:
NexuszkVM:
A verifiable compute engine that generates zero-knowledge proofs attesting to the correctness of all Layer-1 execution,
NexusNetwork:
Distributed proving network where nodes contribute computational power to produce and aggregate zkVM proofs, progressively moving the system toward a single
Universal Proof
of global state.
This unified system enables users to build and access institutional-grade financial infrastructure on-chain, with sub-second latency, shared native liquidity, and cryptographic proof of correctness, bringing the speed, depth, and reliability of traditional markets into a verifiable and composable blockchain environment.
Each layer is independently optimizable, and co-designed for high end-to-end performance.
*Stack-based visualization, showing each of the three layers in the Nexus blockchain
as independently optimizable, yet co-designed, components.
hashtag
Product Overview
Perpetual futures
– the Alpha release for Nexus DEX offers perpetuals trading
High-performance APIs -
Nexus offers native trading APIs for submitting trades to the exchange, compliant with the CCXT interface
High-throughput, low latency
– order matching is handled inside NexusCore, the Exchange coprocessor engine, for CEX-like speed with onchain security guarantees
The Internet Exchange -
spot, perps, options, RWAs, treasuries, FX, and other verifiable finance products and assets will roll out in subsequent product releases
Next
Nexus DEX Alpha
chevron-right
Last updated
15 days ago

════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
End of document
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
